# Traffic-Sign-Detection-and-Classification

With the rapid development of autonomous driving and advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS), traffic sign recognition has become crucial in intelligent transportation systems. Accurately locating and identifying traffic signs through car cameras can enhance driving safety and efficiency, helping vehicles adapt to various traffic environments and avoid driver errors or accidents. Given the variations in traffic signs due to lighting, weather conditions, and possible obstructions, building a reliable recognition system is essential for the success of autonomous driving technology. 

The goal of this project is to build a deep learning model capable of accurately classifying different types of traffic signs. To make the model more user friendly, it takes an image containing traffic signs as input and outputs the corresponding category of each sign. Hence, in addition to classification, the model also needs to perform detection. Deep learning models, such as YOLO, have shown remarkable performance in image recognition and detection tasks by automatically detecting the location of the searching items and extracting high-level features from images for classification. Given the diversity in traffic sign shapes, colors, distance, and clarity, which can also be influenced by lighting and obstructions, traditional rule-based or handcrafted feature methods fall short. Machine learning models, however, can learn these complex patterns from a large dataset, improving detection/ recognition accuracy. Therefore, deep learning is suitable for developing a traffic sign detection and recognition system. This approach effectively handles the complexity of traffic sign images under different conditions, providing greater adaptability and robustness than traditional methods.

This project is developed by Yahe Zhang yahe.zhang@mail.utoronto.ca , Jinghang Zhu jinghang.zhu03@gmail.com and Ruibo Zhang ruibozhang.zhang@mail.utoronto.ca.
